How we sell and position individual products now (#16813)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/marketing/how-we-position-and-sell/data-pipelines.md

---

> title: Data pipelines

Reviewer: Is there a reason we are using data pipelines here when we refer to them as warehouse sources in other places?

Author: I'd view this as data pipeline being a product vs warehouse sources being a feature - but I could be wrong here. Would potentially be a good area for you to look and see if we can simplify: https://posthog.com/docs/cdp

sidebar: Handbook
showTitle: true
---

> **Owner:** See [who owns this feature](https://posthog.com/handbook/engineering/feature-ownership)

## The unique belief (in terms of data pipelines)

> PostHog is [a doing company](/blog/posthogs-next-chapter). Agents already create the majority of dashboards through PostHog AI and MCP. PostHog Code runs the [product autonomy loop](/blog/self-driving-product): signals in, work out, evaluation, repeat.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph feels to navel-gazey? Why is this a unique belief that matters to a buyer?

> PostHog's data pipelines move data into and out of PostHog without forcing you to buy a separate CDP, ETL tool, or reverse-ETL service. Sources are free, destinations and batch exports are usage-priced, transformations run on Hog functions inside the same platform that runs your analytics, replay, flags, experiments, warehouse, and agents.

Reviewer: Do we have a glossary of terms that we can link to to explain what CDP, ETL and reverse ETL are? With our primary persona being product engineers not data people it might not be obvious to them?

Author: We did have /glossary at one point, not sure if it covers this though. I've never seen questions about these terms, so I'm confident in them, but feel free to add to docs if you think it's helpful!

That bundling is the pitch. Segment and Rudderstack only move data. PostHog moves it, lets you act on it, and feeds the agents that act on your behalf — typically 5–10x cheaper than Segment at equivalent volume.

## The unique belief (in terms of data pipelines)

PostHog is [a doing company](/blog/posthogs-next-chapter). Agents already create the majority of dashboards through PostHog AI and MCP. PostHog Code runs the [product autonomy loop](/blog/self-driving-product): signals in, work out, evaluation, repeat.

> That loop only closes if the agent can see the whole picture. Errors and replays don't tell you which customer to prioritize — revenue from Stripe, plan from HubSpot, tickets from Zendesk, spend from Google do. That data lives outside PostHog. So do the systems PostHog needs to push signals into.

Reviewer: I find this a little confusingly worded: 'That data lives outside PostHog. So do the systems PostHog needs to push signals into' 

Isn't the idea that all your data can live inside PostHog and Flags, experiments, logs etc are the systems PostHog pushes this data into?

Author: ```suggestion
That loop only closes if the agent can see the whole picture. Errors and replays don't tell you which customer to prioritize — revenue from Stripe, plan from HubSpot, tickets from Zendesk, spend from Google do. That data lives outside PostHog. So do some of the systems PostHog may need to push signals into.
```

I think this softens. The idea is that this data may, for example, need to be pushed to some tools like Customer.io to facilitate.

> **Data pipelines are how PostHog becomes infrastructure for self-driving development.** Sources bring business context in. Destinations and batch exports push enriched signals back out. Without pipelines the autonomy loop is half-blind. Segment and Rudderstack just move data. PostHog moves it *and* runs the agents that act on it.

Reviewer: ++1 to PostHog becoming data infrastructure

Reviewer: I know we won't stop offering batch exports, and all for the transparency of including it, but in the context of what the data stack will look like once we have the managed warehouse the hope is less people will need it, so do we want to include it in our positioning here? 

I think the way its phrased makes it sound like we expect people to export their data, but I see the benefit of batch exports as the freedom/flexibility to choose not to be locked-in to PostHog, the hope is that they wouldn't need to

Author: Interesting thought. Can you comment in how you'd see this phrased?

Author: Actually, I'd like to merge this in today but happy for you to PR on top of it later!

- **Customers on Segment, Rudderstack, mParticle, or Fivetran today.** We'll buy out the contract.
- **Warehouse customers wanting Stripe / HubSpot / Salesforce alongside product data.** Sources are free.
- **Compliance-sensitive teams.** EU residency, SOC 2, HIPAA-ready.

### Who this isn't for

> - Teams that need 700+ destinations on day one — Segment wins on breadth.

Reviewer 3: Thinking out loud and this may not be the place for this but could AI / MCP help us plug the gap by creating integrations where we don't have something implemented by AI creating a webhook?

Author: Probably best tackled here: https://posthog.slack.com/archives/C031FT4UZL1/p1778552081638739

- Mature data orgs with deep tracking-plan governance needs — Segment Protocols is more mature.
- Teams who only want a CDP and don't care about the rest of PostHog — the bundle is the whole point.

## Messaging

### Elevator pitch

> PostHog's data pipelines move data into and out of PostHog without forcing you to buy a separate CDP, ETL tool, or reverse-ETL service. Sources are free, destinations and batch exports are usage-priced, transformations run on Hog functions inside the same platform that runs your analytics, replay, flags, experiments, warehouse, and agents.

Reviewer 2: yeah, the elevator pitches should definitely be first IMO. The flow into the unique belief would be more seamless if the product specific value prop is defined before its place in the product autonomy loop is highlighted.

## Messaging

### Message 1: Pipelines are the context layer for self-driving development

**Problem:** Agents that don't see revenue, plan tier, or support history can't prioritize. They see a stack trace, not the fact that the error hit your top customer.

> **Solution:** Sources pull Stripe, HubSpot, Salesforce, Zendesk, and 40+ other systems into PostHog so every signal carries its business context — for your engineers and your agents.

Reviewer: sources vs pipeline
